# Base OS
The base OS can be obtained by checking the [Raspbian Image](https://wiki.banana-pi.org/Banana_Pi_BPI-M5#Raspbian) in the official Banana Pi documentation.

It was properly stored in a 16gb-total and partitioned Micro SD card. While other partitions serve storage purpose, the main one has boot capabilities. This means that, once inserted in the SBC and powered, the OS in the boot partition started running (from the SD card).

There are many techniques (incl. using `dd`) to burn the contents into eMMC. After setup, the SD card was not needed anymore. We'll remove it.
# Initial status
There are three users here:
1. `root`: The root user (0).
2. `pi`: The "normal" user (1000). However, it **is** a _sudoer_.

And the following partitions are present:
```
mmcblk0 (disk)
+-mmcblk0p1 (part, 256mb) /boot (ext4)
+-mmcblk0p2 (part, ...gb) / (ext4)
mmcblk0boot0 (disk)
mmcblk0boot1 (disk)
mmcblk0rpmb (disk)
```
## Backup and Restore
The following commands can be used to create a backup of the console (and the inverse commands, i.e. swapping if=/of=, are easy to infer):
```
sudo dd if=/dev/mmcblk0 of=/media/pi/Path/To/mmcblk0_backup.img bs=4M status=progress
sudo dd if=/dev/mmcblk0boot0 of=/media/pi/Path/To/mmcblk0boot0_backup.img bs=4M status=progress
sudo dd if=/dev/mmcblk0boot1 of=/media/pi/Path/To/mmcblk0boot1_backup.img bs=4M status=progress
sudo dd if=/dev/mmcblk0rpmb of=/media/pi/Path/To/mmcblk0rpmb_backup.img bs=4M status=progress
```
# Setup
The next thing to be done was to create two partitions (using `parted`):
```
+-mmcblk0p3 (part, 23mb) /mnt/CURRENT_SAVE (ext4)
+-mmcblk0p4 (part, 2.2gb) /mnt/SAVES (ext4)
```

These serve to store:
1. The save of the current game.
2. All the saves, for all the games.

Also, a user is created:
```
sudo useradd -M gamer
```

Then, creating a symbolic link:
```
sudo ln -s /mnt/CURRENT_SAVE /home/gamer
```

With this, writing on the home directory will always write in the CURRENT_SAVE partition, thus joining the _saving lifecycle_.

Finally, ensuring the password for `root` and `pi` is: `Admin$2024`. The password is actually trivial: It can always be changed with:

1. `sudo passwd` for `root` user.
2. `GUI option: Start > Preferences > Raspberry Pi Configuration` for `pi` user.
	1. Button: `Change Password`.
# Drivers
Aside from the default ALSA drivers and related stuff, we're installing the WI-FI driver `rtl8188eu`.
# Tools
Compiler tools like `gcc` / `makefile` (essentials) and related tools like `git` are installed, although they're mostly intended for development and building.
# Game Executors
## Web Browsers
A `chromium-browser` is installed. This is installed to run HTML5 games.
## Box86 and Box64
Both `box86` and `box64` are meant to execute native Linux games in those architectures. Installing `box86` also required adding the `ia32` architecture to the system.
## Python
Python 3.9 is supported as a global interpreter (`python`).
## RetroArch and EmulationStation
RetroArch is installed (N64 games are not supported) as a libretro-bridging emulator. Also, EmulationStation (`emulationstation`) is installed.
## Native Execution
Native games (e.g. Nez and Godot 4.2 for Linux/X11 arm64) are supported.
# Configuration Changes:
Some details in the /boot/config.txt file:

```
In order to use a 7" display, I modified /boot/config.txt, uncommenting and changing these variables:

I had to remove:

#framebuffer_width=1280
#framebuffer_height=720

And replace with this:

framebuffer_width=1920
framebuffer_height=1080

# These values match a 7" display. Uncomment them when using a standard LCD Smart TV.
# Changes in that file always require a reboot.

Also, I had to remove:

#hdmi_group=1
#hdmi_mode=1

And -for the same reason- replace them with:

hdmi_group=2
hdmi_mode=82

Also uncomment: hdmi_force_hotplug=1

And add:

hdmi_pixel_encoding=2
hdmi_ignore_edid=0xa5000080
```