# Installed custom Hawa services and tools
There are some services and tools which are installed in this console. Those services and tools are Hawa-specific.
# VirtualPad
This is a service that allows the user to use, in addition to Native/Hardware Gamepads, also Virtual Gamepads which are actually internal (uinput) gamepads managed from external TCP clients which properly logged in using a client installed in a mobile device, thus converting the mobile device to a fake Gamepad.

A System Unit is created like this:

```
[Unit]
Description=Hawa VirtualPad
After=network.target

[Service]
User=root
Group=root
WorkingDirectory=/opt/Hawa/virtualpad
ExecStart=/opt/Hawa/virtualpad/virtualpad-server
Restart=always

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

The **full** instructions are in the [VirtualPad-Server Repository](https://github.com/HawaTechnologies/virtualpad-server). All of them must be executed in order in a new DragonShark console. These assume that `/opt/Hawa/virtualpad` is the place where the server is installed (cloned, downloaded).

There's also a symbolic link created in `/usr/local/bin/virtualpad-admin` which points to `/opt/Hawa/virtualpad/virtualpad-admin`.

__FIX__: While the latter has a proper `0755` permissions setting, the former has an erroneous `0777` permissions. It must also be `0755`.

This service mounts a bunch of servers:
- Port `2357` (exposed over the network) for the gamepad clients.
- Port `2358` (exposed over the network) for the broadcast server (for other apps to tell about changes in the input and related stuff).
- UnixDomain socket `/run/Hawa/virtualpad-admin.sock` for the main server, receiving commands from the virtualpad-admin tool.
# Launcher
This service is a **game launcher** and it is composed of two elements:

1. A service, which attends all the requests and launches the games using the user:group `gamer:gamer` pair.
2. A tool that launches a game using that server. The regular `pi` user will use this tool to tell the service that it must run that game (being `root`: forcing the user to be `gamer:gamer`).

For this to work, there's a service with a System Unit created like this:

```
[Unit]
Description=Hawa Launcher
After=network.target

[Service]
User=root
Group=root
WorkingDirectory=/opt/Hawa/launcher
ExecStart=/opt/Hawa/launcher/launch-server
ExecStop=pkill launch-server
Restart=always
TimeoutStopSec=1s

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

The **full** instructions are in the [Launcher Repository](https://github.com/HawaTechnologies/launcher). All of them must be executed in order in a new DragonShark console. These assume that `/opt/Hawa/launcher` is the place where the worker is installed (cloned, downloaded).

This service mounts a connection:
- UnixDomain Socket `/run/Hawa/game-launcher.sock` for the worker to receive orders to run a new game.

**Only one game** can be run at a given time. No overlapping or child games can run.

There's also a symbolic link created in `/usr/local/bin/launch-game` which points to `/opt/Hawa/launcher/launch-game`.

__FIX__: While the latter has a proper `0755` permissions setting, the former has an erroneous `0777` permissions. It must also be `0755`.